when it comes to the diet i think a
ketogenic diet is very healthy
and very sustainable but i've also
learned a lot i used to dump fat on
everything
and fat that's devoid of nutrients like
butter
and mct oil like if you're having three
or four cups of uh
bulletproof coffee a day which i was
doing in the beginning bulletproof
coffee is okay to have like maybe once a
day i'd say to get you you know maybe
even
extend your intermittent fasting but
even better than bulletproof coffee
actually way better would be bone broth
but what i've learned is that um
your body's always seeking nutrients and
if you look at the nutrient profile of
red meat
and you compare that to any fruit or
vegetable on the planet
red meat will kill it obviously it's
kind of crazy it's a little bit off the
deep end to a lot of people and i
understand that that's why i just say
like this is what i'm doing
you can never be wrong if you tell
people what you're doing
uh and how what works for you and that's
just what i like to do
i'm not a doctor i'm just a filmmaker
that likes to share my experience
we just need to look into our nutrition
a little bit further
in bottom line is anybody that's
watching this
just needs to know that no amount of
processed carbs
is a good amount it's a drug you know
and
a lot of people don't look at it that
way but i do it's a drug and these
processed carbs are basically
a poison that have put over half the
people in the united states in the
hospital
so i talked to dr sean baker who said
hey
you ever heard of this diet red meat and
water kind of thing a carnivore diet
and i'm like actually i have
here on the internet i noticed that
insults
sort of come in and out of fashion
a couple years ago everyone was calling
everyone else
a pseudo-intellectual can you remember
that and then it went out of style
and one of the things i loved about that
insult was oh great so are you guys
interested in being real intellectuals
but no unfortunately people were just
interested in insulting one another
as pseudo-intellectuals without
considering for even one moment
whether or not they've opened a book in
the last five years or or what have you
but the truth is when you know people
with phds
with profound expertise
narrow but deep in one field what you
find is
the moment they step out of their own
area of expertise
they're a pseudo-intellectual like
everyone else i knew a woman
who had a phd in tibet
tibetan language tibetan politics
tibetan history
tibetan culture this sort of thing she
spoke tibetan fluently her husband was
tibetan
her dog was tibetan it's a real thing
these giant tibetan husky dogs whatever
you want to call them um
you know she's a white woman but she
lived and breathed totally specialized
in tibet the moment she stepped outside
of her
area of expertise started talking about
thailand laos and cambodia
wow why it was like talking to the most
ignorant white tourist who just stepped
off an airplane she knew nothing
she knew nothing and also you know we
have this myth of like critical thinking
she you know there was it wasn't as if
she gained a set of skills that helped
her be
skeptical or have an informed opinion it
was shocking now and i've encountered
that again and again and again i
used to work in non-fiction book
publishing and i remember
my boss the owner of the company he once
handed a book this was again a book to
deal with uh
specifically the history of cambodia
handed you a dentist
to to be the editor of this was just
before he hired me i was a much better
at
and he was he was standing there running
his fingers through his hair shooting
this is an
educated person this is a dentist
he's a dentist he doesn't study the
history and politics of cambodia he
doesn't even care
why did you think this guy was going to
do a good job editing this book it was
it was a disaster
um but you know again he had this kind
of stratified class consciousness view
of society like oh
a dentist is a refined person oh this
woman with a phd
is a sophisticated person doesn't work
that way it
fundamentally does not work that way now
in this video we're talking about chris
bell and chris bell
could be reviled as a
pseudo-intellectual
he's someone who presents himself as a
sympathetic
character in his own films
the tremendous amount of creativity in
the editing
and tremendous gaps in his autobiography
left for us in the audience to fill in
but you know what
his first hit film dealing with steroids
he took his own personal agony
and struggles and disappointment and his
family experience
and his brother and his took all these
subjective emotionally evocative
elements
and mixed them up with some you know
reasonably well researched facts about
the steroid phenomena the united states
america presented he had a hit
documentary
which is the rarest thing in the world
by the way his next hit movie
prescription drug overdoses and it dealt
with to a significant extent
antidepressants some other prescription
drugs
uh in the next he's looking at his
brother
his brother who got addicted to these
medications
and died in and out of rehab eventually
ends up
dead in a slab the film progresses to
its first hour
and then we have a plot twist he reveals
that even
during the film he himself was a drug
addict he was addicted to these same
medications
he overdosed he went to rehab he barely
survived
[Music]
to make that story sympathetic
to the audience it's an art form
and you know i'm not reviling him for
being a pseudo-intellectual
as sick but as successful as those films
were
if you watch them you will be left to
wonder what if we weren't watching
some lowbrow imbecile talking about his
personal relationship with his brother
and his mom and this stuff
what if we were watching someone who had
real expertise who had real depth of
understanding someone who had devoted
their life
to researching these things whether it's
opiate drug overdose
or antidepressants or side effects of
steroids
what if that was the person making this
film
instead of this carefully contrived
character chris bell as we know him
chris bell who begins
his story at 33 years old in the parking
lot of gold's gym
telling you vaguely that he moved to
california chasing the dream of being a
bodybuilder tempted by steroids both of
his brothers are using steroids
and and and and uh
did you did you finish high school did
you go to university
uh he works at this gym but he's not
even a personal trainer
looks like he he sells gym memberships
and kind of helps out sweeping the floor
at 33 years old and and we never
there are a lot of question marks about
this guy and he admits to
at different points problems with drug
addiction
throughout his life he admits to at
least briefly
using steroids and then deciding against
them
you've seen the film footage of what he
looks like now on sean baker's carnivore
diet that's a big contrast
to how he looked in his last two
hit films do you think it's possible
i think it's possible he's using
performance dancing drugs
in the same way that he told us all
these things about how terrible
opioid painkillers were but then it
turned out plot twist he was
addicted to opioid painkillers himself
do you think it could be the plot twist
here
spoken or left unspoken is that he's
back on uh
back on steroids himself
in the same way that the woman i knew
who had a phd
in tibetan studies was it was just like
talking to a complete imbecile
as soon as she stepped out of her field
of expertise start dealing with another
geographical linguistic political frame
of reference
in the same way that that dentist was
not capable of doing a good job
it is really strange it's really
stunning
it's really disorienting to see how
someone who
did manage to put in the research to
make a decent documentary film about
steroids
who did manage to do the research to
make a you know decent
and emotionally moving movie about
prescription drug
medication is just utterly
utterly incapable of dealing with the
science of human nutrition of dealing
with the carnivore versus vegan debate
and that's exactly what his his next
film is going to deal with
red meat will help you uh decrease
inflammation a lot of people think it
will increase inflammation uh but what
i've learned
is that um your body's always seeking
nutrients
and if you look at the nutrient profile
of red meat and you compare that to any
fruit or vegetable on the planet
red meat will kill it
[Music]
we lack the vocabulary in english to
really talk about these problems
but we have this somewhat academic term
motivated reasoning
what does motivated reasoning really
mean it means you're in the position
subjectively of saying
i want to believe in this
therefore i'm willing to believe that
you know there's something you're
covering up here but you're engaging in
motivated reasoning and i have to say
from my perspective one of the simplest
most fundamental
most ineluctable differences between
being a child
and being an adult is that you refuse
to engage in motivated racing that you
never
never not even once take the step as an
adult of saying
well i want donald trump to win the
election
therefore i have to believe x y and said
right that you don't ever allow your
reasoning
to begin with your desires
and to then proceed from those desires
to fabricate the facts to set up
you know a series of assumptions that
are not based on anything
not not based on satisfying your
curiosity
not cross-examined in light of your
sense of personal integrity
no where you start fabricating things to
justify your own desires
to sustain whatever it is that you want
to believe in
i mean really people like to disrespect
my crew but the fact is that you know my
name and i don't know you